README.md, before:

# CREM
###Convention Resource Event Management

##Purpose

This web app will help a small team of convention organizers schedule a huge number of events for a highly-diverse multi-track convention, such as Penguicon, identifying all resource conflicts.

Penguicon has about 500 events over a single weekend, in about seventeen different tracks, each track with its own organizer.

For years, Penguicon has planned its schedule using two systems, and kept them in sync manually.

In a spreadsheet, we represented rooms as columns, and times as rows, so we can catch conflicts. But that doesn't store the event description, the topics, whether or not it is "just an idea"/"probably happening"/"confirmed", and other important data.

A database allowed us to store and present a schedule with all the details associated with each event. But the databases we have used could not catch conflicts in which two events are scheduled in the same room at the same time, or a presenter in two places at one time, or duplicated events or presenters.

We are creating C.R.E.M. because we need one solution which stores all the data we use, and also alerts us to conflicts.

##Prerequisites

To develop for this project, you will need `node`, `grunt`, and `bower`. Download `node` from `https://nodejs.org/en/download/` and install it.

Then use this on the command line for node package manager (npm) to install bower and grunt: `npm install -g bower grunt-cli`

##Installation

In the project directory, execute `install.sh` or `install.bat` depending on your operating system. This step only needs to be
performed once.

This will do two things. First it will create a Python virtual environment called *venv* and install a version of Python in it.

The second thing will be to run `bower install` which will install a folder `app/static/lib` full of Javascript third-party dependencies.

Avoid committing the two above directories, which are created by this process. Open `CREM/.git/info/include` which determines which files Git will ignore. Paste in this pattern:

```
app/static/lib/
venv/
```

We won't change the contents of third-party dependencies; instead we will only edit `bower.json` which determines which versions of dependencies we will use, managed by Bower.

## Activating the Virtual Environment

The steps below require that you activate the virtual environment.

In Linux, activate the virtual environment with the command:

    source venv/bin/activate

In Windows, activate the virtual environment with the command:

    venv\bin\activate

## Creating the Database

Activate the virtual environment as described above. Then create the
database with the command:

    python db_create.py

##Running the Application

Activate the virtual environment as described above. Then start the
application with the command:

    python run.py

The application will now appear at [http://localhost:5000](http://localhost:5000).

Commit message:

Added instructions in README.md for adding test data to the database.

README.md, after:

# CREM
###Convention Resource Event Management

##Purpose

This web app will help a small team of convention organizers schedule a huge number of events for a highly-diverse multi-track convention, such as Penguicon, identifying all resource conflicts.

Penguicon has about 500 events over a single weekend, in about seventeen different tracks, each track with its own organizer.

For years, Penguicon has planned its schedule using two systems, and kept them in sync manually.

In a spreadsheet, we represented rooms as columns, and times as rows, so we can catch conflicts. But that doesn't store the event description, the topics, whether or not it is "just an idea"/"probably happening"/"confirmed", and other important data.

A database allowed us to store and present a schedule with all the details associated with each event. But the databases we have used could not catch conflicts in which two events are scheduled in the same room at the same time, or a presenter in two places at one time, or duplicated events or presenters.

We are creating C.R.E.M. because we need one solution which stores all the data we use, and also alerts us to conflicts.

##Prerequisites

To develop for this project, you will need `node`, `grunt`, and `bower`. Download `node` from `https://nodejs.org/en/download/` and install it.

Then use this on the command line for node package manager (npm) to install bower and grunt: `npm install -g bower grunt-cli`

##Installation

In the project directory, execute `install.sh` or `install.bat` depending on your operating system. This step only needs to be
performed once.

This will do two things. First it will create a Python virtual environment called *venv* and install a version of Python in it.

The second thing will be to run `bower install` which will install a folder `app/static/lib` full of Javascript third-party dependencies.

Avoid committing the two above directories, which are created by this process. Open `CREM/.git/info/include` which determines which files Git will ignore. Paste in this pattern:

```
app/static/lib/
venv/
```

We won't change the contents of third-party dependencies; instead we will only edit `bower.json` which determines which versions of dependencies we will use, managed by Bower.

## Activating the Virtual Environment

The steps below require that you activate the virtual environment.

In Linux, activate the virtual environment with the command:

    source venv/bin/activate

In Windows, activate the virtual environment with the command:

    venv\bin\activate

## Creating the Database

Activate the virtual environment as described above. Then create the
database with the command:

    python db_create.py

## Adding Test Data

Activate the virtual environment as described above. Then add test data
to the database with the command:

    python add_testdata.py

##Running the Application

Activate the virtual environment as described above. Then start the
application with the command:

    python run.py

The application will now appear at [http://localhost:5000](http://localhost:5000).
